---
layout: page
authors: ["Nathaniel Porter"]
teaser: "Announcing our new Maintainer Community Lead"
title: "Join us in welcoming Nathaniel Porter as our new Maintainer Community Lead!"
date: 2023-11-08
time: "09:00:00"
tags: ["Community", "Maintainers"]
---

Hi Carpentries community!

My name is Nathaniel and I'm excited to be taking on a new role with The
Carpentries as Maintainer Community Lead. I'd say it's a new hat for me,
but if you've seen me on a call or workshop around the Carpentries,
you'll probably recognize me more by my flat cap (which I don't intend
to replace) than my face.

![A headshot of Nathaniel Porter in a grey cap and red shirt on the
Virginia Tech campus]({{ site.urlimg }}/blog/2023/11/2023-11-10-nathaniel-porter-headshot-small.png) 

I can't claim to be building the community; our past leads Vini, Daniel,
and Angela have done a fantastic job already, with a little help from
the infrastructure team in making things easier. But I do hope to help
mobilize and build community among Maintainers both Carpentries-wide and
within lessons and programs (more on that below).

I am the Data Education Coordinator and Social Science Data Consultant
in the [Virginia Tech University Libraries](https://lib.vt.edu/). My PhD
is in quantitative Sociology (Penn State) but the winding road to get
there also passed through East Asian Studies, Japanese, Theology, and
Leadership. In [my daily
work](https://experts.vt.edu/6362-nathaniel-porter), I'm responsible to
help Virginia Tech researchers to find and use the social science data
and tools they need, as well as supporting our Carpentries community
here (20+ instructors and 8-10 workshops per year) and teaching with
data in other workshops and courses. [My
research](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=dNggMycAAAAJ&hl=en)
focuses on data pedagogy and best practices.

Thanks to the flexibility of my data education role, I've been involved
in The Carpentries in a variety of ways - as an
[Instructor](https://carpentries.org/instructors/),
[Trainer](https://carpentries.org/trainers/) and local community lead,
as well as a [Maintainer](https://carpentries.org/maintainers/)
([Instructor
Training](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training)),
[Curriculum Advisory
Committee](https://carpentries.org/curriculum-advisors/) member ([Data
Carpentry: Social
Science](https://datacarpentry.org/lessons/#social-science-curriculum)),
and [Trainer
Leadership](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md).
I'm also part of a [cohort supported by IMLS and
UCLA](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info/) that is designing new Library
Carpentry lessons related to open science. All of which is to say, I've
been on many sides of community and lesson maintenance, which I hope
will help me mobilize our community.

So what does a Maintainer Community Lead do and what do I hope to bring in
specific? The Maintainer Community Lead's primary role is to recruit,
connect, and coordinate Maintainers. This includes hosting monthly
[Maintainer meetings](https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers#),
where I will build on the recent success of topical focuses to build
skills and make the work of maintenance easier while we create
community. It also includes working with recruiting and
[onboarding](https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/) new
Maintainers and coordinating with curriculum leads, as well as
encouraging and equipping non-maintainers to contribute effectively.

Most of all, what I hope to do is build a stronger sense of community.
Carpentries-wide that likely will mean bringing back co-working corrals
and encouraging active engagement through asynchronous platforms like
[Slack](https://slack-invite.carpentries.org/). But I also plan to work
with Maintainers for specific programs, lessons, and tools to coordinate
sub-communities of interest to meet occasionally to support and
encourage others with similar challenges rather than replicating each
other's work unnecessarily.

The strength of The Carpentries is in its diverse and inclusive
community, and our curriculum teams - developers, Maintainers,
contributors, Lesson Program Governance members, and Curriculum Advisors - are a key
part of that. Lee Vinsel, a colleague at Virginia Tech, researches the
chronic neglect of maintenance and he co-authored a New York Times
article that really encapsulates why I'm a Maintainer and why I want to
be in this particular role - "Let's get excited about maintenance!"

So let's do just that. Whether you're a veteran Maintainer or just
exploring, I invite you to engage with our community (and with me
directly) in meetings (the next one is [November
15](https://codimd.carpentries.org/maintainers#)), on Slack, by sharing
your ideas, and by considering formal roles. I know I'll be there, and I
hope to connect to as many of you as possible this coming year!


